# inter1 1 a
The detective suspected that the company
which the manager ran had advertised falsely.
? Was the detective suspicious of the company? Y
# inter1 1 b
The detective's suspicion that the company
which the manager ran had advertised falsely was verified after further investigation.
? Was the detective suspicious of the company? Y
# inter1 1 c
The detective suspected that the company
which the manager with a record of corrupt practices ran had advertised falsely.
? Was the detective suspicious of the company? Y
# inter1 1 d
The detective's suspicion that the company
which the manager with a record of corrupt practices ran had advertised falsely was verified 
after further investigation.
? Was the detective suspicious of the company? Y


# inter1 2 a
The thief knew that the painting 
which the son inherited could be sold for millions of dollars.
? Did the son inherit a valuable painting? Y
# inter1 2 b
The thief's knowledge that the painting 
which the son inherited could be sold for millions of dollars would prove to be useless.
? Did the son inherit a valuable painting? Y 
# inter1 2 c
The thief knew that the painting 
which the son of the former mayor of town inherited could be sold for millions of dollars.
? Did the son inherit a valuable painting? Y
# inter1 2 d
The thief's knowledge that the painting
which the son of the former mayor of town inherited could be sold for millions of dollars 
would prove useless.
? Did the son inherit a valuable painting? Y

# inter1 3 a
The company doubted that the drug 
which the scientist researched would cure the disease.
? Did the company believe the scientist's research would cure the disease? N
# inter1 3 b
The company's doubt that the drug 
which the scientist researched would cure the disease was covered up.
? Did the company believe the scientist's research would cure the disease? N
# inter1 3 c
The company doubted that the drug 
which the scientist with a grant of ten_thousand dollars researched would cure the disease.
? Did the company believe the scientist's research would cure the disease? N
# inter1 3 d
The company's doubt that the drug 
which the scientist with a grant of ten_thousand dollars researched would cure the disease 
was covered up.
? Did the company believe the scientist's research would cure the disease? N

# inter1 4 a
The president insisted that the country 
which the ambassador represented had violated the treaty.
? Was the president told about the treaty? Y
# inter1 4 b
The president's insistence that the country 
which the ambassador represented had violated the treaty worried the public. 
? Was the president told about the treaty? Y
# inter1 4 c
The president insisted that the country 
which the ambassador with information about the secret plans represented had violated the treaty.
? Was the president told about the treaty? Y
# inter1 4 d
The president's insistence that the country 
which the ambassador with information about the secret plans represented had violated the treaty 
worried the public.
? Was the president told about the treaty? Y

# inter1 5 a
The government acknowledged that the money 
which the army utilized would be spent on a missile defense system.
? Was the money spent on a military offensive project? N
# inter1 5 b
The government's acknowledgment that the money 
which the army utilized would be spent on a missile defense system caused an uproar.
? Was the money spent on a military offensive project? N
# inter1 5 c
The government acknowledged that the money 
which the army with a stockpile of useless weapons utilized would be spent 
on a missile defense system. 
? Was the money spent on a military offensive project? N
# inter1 5 d
The government's acknowledgment that the money 
which the army with a stockpile of useless weapons utilized would be spent 
on a missile defense system caused an uproar.
? Was the money spent on a military offensive project? N

# inter1 6 a
The defendant claimed that the drugs 
which the cop located were not his. 
? Did the policeman find drugs? Y
# inter1 6 b
The defendant's claim that the drugs 
which the cop located were not his was absurd. 
? Did the policeman find drugs? Y
# inter1 6 c
The defendant claimed that the drugs 
which the cop with extensive experience in the force located were not his. 
? Did the policeman find drugs? Y
# inter1 6 d
The defendant's claim that the drugs 
which the cop with extensive experience in the force located were not his was absurd. 
? Did the policeman find drugs? Y

# inter1 7 a
The lawyer predicted that the case 
which the firm represented would be settled outside of court.
? Did the lawyer believe that the firm would go to court? N
# inter1 7 b
The lawyer's prediction that the case 
which the firm represented would be settled outside of court 
turned out to be correct. 
? Did the lawyer believe that the firm would go to court? N
# inter1 7 c
The lawyer predicted that the case 
which the firm on the side of the defendant represented would be settled outside of court.
? Did the lawyer believe that the firm would go to court? N
# inter1 7 d
The lawyer's prediction that the case 
which the firm on the side of the defendant represented would be settled outside of court 
turned out to be correct.
? Did the lawyer believe that the firm would go to court? N

# inter1 8 a
The sergeant presumed that the bomb 
which the student constructed should be treated as evidence. 
? Did the student build a dangerous weapon? Y
# inter1 8 b
The sergeant's presumption that the bomb 
which the student constructed should be treated as evidence 
was agreed upon by more informed authorities. 
? Did the student build a dangerous weapon? Y
# inter1 8 c
The sergeant presumed that the bomb 
which the student with a history of mental instability constructed should be treated as evidence. 
? Did the student build a dangerous weapon? Y
# inter1 8 d
The sergeant's presumption that the bomb
which the student with a history of mental instability constructed should be treated as evidence 
was agreed upon by more informed authorities.
? Did the student build a dangerous weapon? Y

# inter1 9 a
The scientist realized that the compounds 
which the student mixed would react very quickly.
? Were the compounds mixed by the professor? N
# inter1 9 b
The scientist's realization that the compounds 
which the student mixed would react very quickly did not prevent the subsequent mess.
? Were the compounds mixed by the professor? N
# inter1 9 c
The scientist realized that the compounds 
which the student with an interest in inorganic chemistry mixed would react very quickly.
? Were the compounds mixed by the professor? N
# inter1 9 d
The scientist's realization that the compounds 
which the student with an interest in inorganic chemistry mixed would react very quickly 
did not prevent the subsequent mess.
? Were the compounds mixed by the professor? N

# inter1 10 a
The seller promised that the lotion 
which the woman bought would work wonders. 
? Did the woman buy the lotion? Y
# inter1 10 b
The seller's promise that the lotion 
which the woman bought would work wonders pleased the suppliers.
? Did the woman buy the lotion? Y
# inter1 10 c
The seller promised that the lotion 
which the woman with a shelf of bath products bought would work wonders.
? Did the woman buy the lotion? Y
# inter1 10 d
The seller's promise that the lotion 
which the woman with a shelf of bath products bought would work wonders pleased the suppliers. 
? Did the woman buy the lotion? Y

# inter1 11 a
The publisher believed that the manuscript 
which the author presented would become a best seller.
? Did the publisher think customers would dislike the manuscript? N
# inter1 11 b
The publisher's belief that the book 
which the author presented would become a best seller was misplaced. 
? Did the publisher think customers would dislike the manuscript? N
# inter1 11 c
The publisher believed that the manuscript 
which the author with positive reviews from respected critics presented would be a best seller. 
? Did the publisher think customers would dislike the manuscript? N
# inter1 11 d
The publisher's belief that the manuscript 
which the author with positive reviews from respected critics presented would be a best seller 
was misplaced. 
? Did the publisher think customers would dislike the manuscript? N

# inter1 12 a
The employee realized that the company 
which the administrator managed planned a layoff.
? Did the employee know that his job was endangered? Y
# inter1 12 b
The employee's realization that the company 
which the administrator managed planned a layoff caused him to seek other employment.
? Did the employee know that his job was endangered? Y
# inter1 12 c
The employee realized that the company 
which the administrator on the committee for corporate restructuring managed planned a layoff.
? Did the employee know that his job was endangered? Y
# inter1 12 d
The employee's realization that the company 
which the administrator on the committee for corporate restructuring managed planned a layoff 
caused him to seek other employment.
? Did the employee know that his job was endangered? Y

# inter1 13 a
The guide implied that the event 
which the tourists attended would provide money to charity.
? Did the tourists get the impression that the event was for charity? Y
# inter1 13 b
The guide's implication that the event 
which the tourists attended would provide money to charity was just a marketing ploy.
? Did the tourists get the impression that the event was for charity? Y
# inter1 13 c
The guide implied that the event 
which the tourists with invitations from the organizing committee attended would provide money 
to charity.
? Did the tourists get the impression that the event was for charity? Y
# inter1 13 d
The guide's implication that the event 
which the tourists with invitations from the organizing committee attended would provide money 
to charity was just a marketing ploy.
? Did the tourists get the impression that the event was for charity? Y

# inter1 14 a
The clerk recommended that the complaint 
which the customer filed be sent to customer services.
? Did the clerk file a complaint? N
# inter1 14 b
The clerk's recommendation that the complaint 
which the customer filed be sent to customer services was ignored.
? Did the clerk file a complaint? N
# inter1 14 c
The clerk recommended that the complaint 
which the customer with a record of questionable returns filed be sent to customer services.
? Did the clerk file a complaint? N
# inter1 14 d
The clerk's recommendation that the complaint 
which the customer with a record of questionable returns filed be sent to customer services 
was ignored.
? Did the clerk file a complaint? N

# inter1 15 a
The students complained that the problems 
which the professor assigned were unrelated to the material on the exam.
? Did the students think that the homework helped on the exam? N
# inter1 15 b
The students' complaints that the problems 
which the professor assigned were unrelated to the material on the exam were taken seriously 
by the professor.
? Did the students think that the homework helped on the exam? N
# inter1 15 c
The students complained that the problems 
which the professor with a prestigious award in physics assigned were unrelated to the material 
on the exam.
? Did the students think that the homework helped on the exam? N
# inter1 15 d
The students' complaints that the problems 
which the professor with a prestigious award in physics assigned were unrelated to the material 
on the exam were taken seriously by the professor.
? Did the students think that the homework helped on the exam? N

# inter1 16 a
The judge decided that the objection 
which the prosecution made should be overruled. 
? Did the judge side with the prosecution? N
# inter1 16 b
The judge's decision that the objection 
which the prosecution made should be overruled changed the tone of the court.
? Did the judge side with the prosecution? N
# inter1 16 c
The judge decided that the objection 
which the prosecution from a firm in the Northeast made should be overruled.
? Did the judge side with the prosecution? N
# inter1 16 d
The judge's decision that the objection 
which the firm from a firm in the Northeast made should be overruled changed the tone of the court.
? Did the judge side with the prosecution? N

# inter1 17 a
The customer requested that the food which the chef prepared be made without garlic.
? Did the food normally contain garlic? Y
# inter1 17 b
The customer's request that the food 
which the chef prepared be made without garlic offended the waiter.
? Did the food normally contain garlic? Y
# inter1 17 c
The customer requested that the food 
which the chef with extensive training in Italian cooking prepared be made without garlic.
? Did the food normally contain garlic? Y
# inter1 17 d
The customer's request that the food 
which the chef with extensive training in Italian cooking prepared be made without garlic 
offended the waiter.
? Did the food normally contain garlic? Y

# inter1 18 a
The investigator theorized that the plane 
which the pilot crashed had spiraled out of control.
? Did the plane have a smooth flight under the pilot? N
# inter1 18 b
The investigator's theory that the plane 
which the pilot crashed had spiraled out of control was supported by the evidence. 
? Did the plane have a smooth flight under the pilot? N
# inter1 18 c
The investigator's theory that the plane 
which the pilot with a record of careless risks crashed had spiraled out of control was supported 
by the evidence. 
? Did the plane have a smooth flight under the pilot? N
# inter1 18 d
The investigator's theory that the plane 
which the pilot with a record of careless risks crashed had spiraled out of control was supported 
by the evidence. 
? Did the plane have a smooth flight under the pilot? N

# inter1 19 a
The psychiatrist worried that the pills 
which the patient hoarded would be used in a suicide attempt.
? Was the patient using medication appropriately? N
# inter1 19 b
The psychiatrist's worry that the pills 
which the patient hoarded would be used in a suicide attempt was alleviated 
by the action of hospital security.
? Was the patient using medication appropriately? N
# inter1 19 c
The psychiatrist worried that the pills 
which the patient with a family history of depression hoarded would be used in a suicide attempt.
? Was the patient using medication appropriately? N
# inter1 19 d
The psychiatrist's worry that the pills 
which the patient with a family history of depression hoarded would be used in a suicide attempt 
was alleviated by the action of hospital security.
? Was the patient using medication appropriately? N   

# inter1 20 a
The broker speculated that the stocks 
which the company sold would increase in value.
? Did the broker think it was a good idea to invest in the company? Y
# inter1 20 b
The broker's speculation that the stocks 
which the company sold would increase in value proved to be highly profitable.
? Did the broker think it was a good idea to invest in the company? Y
# inter1 20 c
The broker speculated that the stocks 
which the company with big plans for new products sold would increase in value.
? Did the broker think it was a good idea to invest in the company? Y
# inter1 20 d
The broker's speculation that the stocks 
which the company with big plans for new products sold would increase in value proved to be 
highly profitable.
? Did the broker think it was a good idea to invest in the company? Y

# inter1 21 a
The professor assumed that the essay 
which the student presented was copied from someone else.
? Did the professor mistrust the student? Y
# inter1 21 b
The professor's assumption that the essay 
which the student presented was copied from someone else was quickly verified. 
? Did the professor mistrust the student? Y
# inter1 21 c
The professor assumed that the essay 
which the student with a dislike for writing classes presented was copied form someone else. 
? Did the professor mistrust the student? Y
# inter1 21 d
The professor's assumption that the essay 
which the student with a dislike for writing classes presented was copied from someone else 
was quickly verified.
? Did the professor mistrust the student? Y

# inter1 22 a
The landlord insisted that the contract 
which the tenant signed allowed the change in rent.
? Did the tenant want to change the rent? N
# inter1 22 b
The landlord's insistence that the contract 
which the tenant signed allowed the change in rent did not stand up in court. 
? Did the tenant want to change the rent? N
# inter1 22 c
The landlord insisted that the contract 
which the tenant with the noisy parties at night signed allowed the change in rent. 
? Did the tenant want to change the rent? N
# inter1 22 d
The landlord's insistence that the contract 
which the tenant with the noisy parties at night signed allowed the change in rent did not stand up
 in court. 
? Did the tenant want to change the rent? N

# inter1 23 a
The spokesman hinted that the accusation 
which the athlete made might lead to an investigation. 
? Was the athlete's accusation ignored? N
# inter1 23 b
The spokesman's hint that the accusation 
which the athlete made might lead to an investigation was greeted with scorn. 
? Was the athlete's accusation ignored? N
# inter1 23 c
The spokesman hinted that the accusation 
which the athlete in a fit of justifiable anger made might lead to an investigation. 
? Was the athlete's accusation ignored? N
# inter1 23 d
The spokesman's hint that the accusation 
which the athlete in a fit of justifiable anger made might lead to an investigation 
was greeted with scorn.
? Was the athlete's accusation ignored? N

# inter1 24 a
The president decided that the plan 
which the congressman presented would fail.
? Did the president like the congressman's proposal? N
# inter1 24 b
The president's decision that the plan 
which the congressman presented would fail pleased his party.
? Did the president like the congressman's proposal? N
# inter1 24 c
The president decided that the plan 
which the congressman with a belief in lowering taxes presented would fail.
? Did the president like the congressman's proposal? N
# inter1 24 d
The president's decision that the plan 
which the congressman with a belief in lowering taxes presented would fail pleased his party.
? Did the president like the congressman's proposal? N


# part2 1 a
The nurse supervised the administrator of the health department 
who failed to understand the subtleties of the problem.
? Did the administrator not understand the problem? Y
# part2 1 b
The nurse who worked for the doctor supervised the administrator of the health department 
who was new to the job.
? Was the doctor new to his job? N
# part2 1 c
The nurse who worked for the doctor who treated the child supervised the administrator 
of the health department.
? Did the nurse treat the child? N

# part2 2 a
The woman greeted the senator of the region who gave a moving speech 
about the state of affairs in Rwanda.
? Did the woman greet the politician? Y
# part2 2 b
The woman who worked for the executive greeted the senator of the region who hoped to be reelected.
? Did the senator greet the woman? N
# part2 2 c
The woman who worked for the executive who made the donation greeted the senator of the region.
? Was the woman employed? Y
 
# part2 3 a
The student received the grade of a B- in spite of the additional studying 
and after school tutoring.
? Did the student put in extra time studying? Y
# part2 3 b
The student who studied with the tutor received the grade of a B- 
which relieved the student's family.
? Did the student study alone? N
# part2 3 c
The student who studied with the tutor who planned the lessons received the grade of a B-.
? Did the tutor read Spanish novels? N

# part2 4 a
The robber acquired the money in the vault by turning the dial to the appropriate numbers 
and listening until he heard the lock click open.
? Did the robber use a laser to get money? Y
# part2 4 b
The robber who stole from the teller acquired the money in the vault 
which he put into a Swiss bank account.  
? Did the robber succeed in getting the money? Y
# part2 4 c
The robber who stole from the teller who alerted the police acquired the money in the vault.  
? Did the teller acquire the money? N

# part2 5 a
The agent read the document with incriminating information 
that implicated two additional employees in the crime. 
? Did two employees have a document? N
# part2 5 b
The agent who investigated for the businessman read the document with incriminating information 
that had been saved from the trash. 
? Did the businessman read the incriminating document? N
# part2 5 c
The agent who investigated for the businessman who owned the corporation read the document 
with incriminating information. 
? Did the agent investigate for someone who owned a corporation? Y

# part2 6 a
The teacher became a principal in spite of the fact that she missed the interactive environment 
of the classroom.   
? Did the principal think miss the classroom environment? Y
# part2 6 b
The teacher who worked with the pupils became a principal who earned respect 
throughout the school district.   
? Was the principal once a teacher? Y
# part2 6 c
The teacher who worked with the pupils who forgot the material became a principal 
after some additional training.   
? Did the pupils remember what they were taught? N

# part2 7 a
The lawyer worried about the case which he knew would gain little sympathy 
from the members of a jury.
? Did the lawyer think the jury would sympathize with his cause? N
# part2 7 b
The lawyer who argued for the defendant worried about the case 
which was very complicated from a legal standpoint.
? Did the lawyer think the case was straight forward? N
# part2 7 c
The lawyer who argued for the defendant who denied any guilt worried about the case 
which he would present.
? Did the defendant claim he was innocent? Y

# part2 8 a
The representative compromised at the last minute in an attempt to please 
both the businesses and his constituency.
? Did the representative want to please businesses? Y
# part2 8 b
The representative who spoke for the people compromised at the last minute 
in order to please the businesses.
? Did the people compromise? N
# part2 8 c
The representative who spoke for the people who opposed the plan compromised at the last minute.
? Did the representative compromise? Y

# part2 9 a
The private earned a medal for his bravery even though some argued 
that other members of his unit deserved more recognition.
? Was the private's bravery recognized? Y
# part2 9 b
The private who served under the lieutenant earned a medal for his bravery 
which had saved many lives in the battle.
? Did the lieutenant earn a medal for his bravery? N
# part2 9 c
The private who served under the lieutenant who commanded two units earned a medal for his bravery 
in the battle.
? Did the lieutenant earn a medal? N

# part2 10 a
The employee received a pink slip from the manager who was angered by his chronic tardiness 
and blatant disrespect.
? Was the employee angered by blatant disrespect? N
# part2 10 b
The employee who talked about the executive received a pink slip from the manager 
who fired him on the executive's order.
? Was the employee fired? Y
# part2 10 c
The employee who talked about the executive who created the company received a pink slip 
from the manager.
? Did the manager give out a pink slip? Y

# part2 11 a
The mathematician revealed a flaw in the theory which shocked the scientists who formulated it.
? Were the scientists shocked by the flaw? Y
# part2 11 b
The mathematician who worked with the scientists revealed a flaw in the theory 
which spurred further innovative research.
? Did the scientists reveal the flaw in the theory? N
# part2 11 c
The mathematician who worked with the scientists who discovered the phenomenon revealed a flaw 
in the theory.
? Did the scientists reveal the flaw in the theory? N

# part2 12 a
The reporter wrote a scathing editorial in the paper because she vehemently disagreed 
with the politician's views.
? Did the reporter agree with the politician? N
# part2 12 b
The reporter who smiled at the politician wrote a scathing editorial in the paper 
in which she called the politician an imbecile.
? Did the editorial insult the politician? Y
# part2 12 c
The reporter who smiled at the politician who supported the bill wrote a scathing editorial 
in the paper.
? Did the politician support the bill? Y

# part2 13 a 
The customer received a free coupon to the store even though she had sworn never 
to shop there again.
? Was a free coupon given out? Y
# part2 13 b 
The customer who complained to the manager received a free coupon to the store 
after returning the defective item.
? Did the manager complain? N
# part2 13 c
The customer who complained to the manager who fired the assistant received a free coupon 
to the store.
? Did the customer want the assistant fired? N

# part2 14 a
The politician became a hero to the local farmers who wanted price floors 
on the cost of their produce.
? Were the country farmers heroic? N
# part2 14 b
The politician who fought for the people became a hero to the local farmers who reelected him.
? Was the politician reelected? Y
# part2 14 c
The politician who fought for the people who harvested the crops became a hero 
to the local farmers.
? Was the politician liked by the farmers? Y

# part2 15 a
The psychologist asked a psychiatrist for the patient's prescription 
even though the anti-depressants were only somewhat effective.  
? Did the patient need medication? Y
# part2 15 b
The psychologist who listened to the patient asked a psychiatrist 
for the patient's prescription of Prozac.  
? Did the psychiatrist listen to the patient? N
# part2 15 c
The psychologist who listened to the patient who heard some voices asked a psychiatrist 
for the patient's prescription.  
? Did the psychiatrist listen to the patient? N

# part2 16 a
The director wanted the understudy to perform because he thought she had more talent and potential 
than the lead.
? Did the director think the understudy was lacking in talent? N
# part2 16 b
The director who frowned upon the actor wanted the understudy to perform the part of Cleopatra 
in the final production.
? Did the director want the understudy to act as Cleopatra? Y
# part2 16 c
The director who frowned upon the actor who won an award wanted the understudy to perform instead.
? Did the director disapprove of the actor? Y

# part2 17 a
The judge requested a recess in the trial so he could have more time to think 
about the implications of the new evidence.
? Was a recess requested? Y
# part2 17 b
The judge who listened to the attorneys requested a recess in the trial 
to consider the new evidence.
? Did the attorneys request a recess? N
# part2 17 c
The judge who listened to the attorneys who represented the defendant requested a recess 
in the trial.
? Did the attorneys request a recess? N

# part2 18 a
The businessman owned a company in New York, but he wanted to sell it to a larger corporation.
? Did the businessman own a company in Europe? N
# part2 18 b
The businessman who talked to the engineer owned a company in New York, but he wanted to sell it.
? Did the businessman want to sell his company? Y
# part2 18 c
The businessman who talked to the engineer who designed the bridge owned a company in New York.
? Did the businessman converse with an engineer? Y

# part2 19 a
The Republican promised reform if elected; however, he did not intend to follow through 
with his promise. 
? Was the politician Republican? Y
# part2 19 b
The Republican who agreed with the businesses promised reform if elected in the coming month. 
? Were the elections a couple of months away? N
# part2 19 c
The Republican who agreed with the businesses who wanted lower taxes promised reform if elected 
in November. 
? Did the politician promise improvements in education? N

# part2 20 a
The girl helped the charity for the homeless which raised over a thousand dollars 
with her fund raiser.  
? Did the charity help the girl? N
# part2 20 b
The girl who prayed for the woman helped the charity for the homeless 
with donations and contributions.   
? Did the girl provide the charity with donations? Y
# part2 20 c
The girl who prayed for the woman who supported the family helped the charity for the homeless.   
? Did the woman support the family? Y

# part2 21 a
The musician appreciated the difficulty of the sonata even though he performed it 
with seemingly effortless ease. 
? Did the musician's performance make the sonata seem easy? Y
# part2 21 b
The musician who played for the ambassadors appreciated the difficulty of the sonata 
even though many did not. 
? Did the ambassadors appreciate the sonata's difficulty? N
# part2 21 c
The musician who played for the ambassadors who enjoyed the performance appreciated the difficulty 
of the sonata.   
? Did the ambassadors appreciate the sonata's difficulty? N

# part2 22 a
The magician pulled a bunny from the hat which he brought to every magic show he performed.
? Did the magician forget his hat? N
# part2 22 b
The magician who performed for the children pulled a bunny from the hat 
which he brought to every magic show.
? Did the child perform a magic trick? N
# part2 22 c
The magician who performed for the children who feared the clown pulled a bunny from the hat.
? Were the children afraid of the clown? Y

# part2 23 a
The nun enjoyed the stories in the Bible although she noticed 
that they sometimes contained conflicting messages and facts.
? Did the woman like Biblical stories? Y
# part2 23 b
The nun who sympathized with the child enjoyed the stories in the Bible 
that provided encouragement and inspiration.
? Did the child like Biblical stories? N
# part2 23 c
The nun who sympathized with the child who sang the hymn enjoyed the stories in the Bible.
? Did the child sing? Y

# part2 24 a
The monkey preferred to perform with the music even though the trainer found it distracting.  
? Was the monkey distracted by music? N
# part2 24 b
The monkey who waited for the trainer preferred to perform with the music 
that distracted the other animals.
? Did the music distract the other animals? Y
# part2 24 c
The monkey who waited for the trainer who gave the signal preferred to perform with the music.  
? Did the monkey prefer performing with music? Y


# 2objverbs 1 a
Mary gave a book to a young child who was very grateful for the present and read it quickly. 
? Did the child not read the book? N
# 2objverbs 1 b
Mary gave a book which had impressed some critics to a young child 
who was grateful for the present. 
? Was a book given to Mary? N
# 2objverbs 1 c
Mary gave a book which had impressed some critics who worked for a magazine to a young child. 
? Was a book given to Mary? N
# 2objverbs 1 d
Mary read a book which had impressed some critics who worked for a magazine to a young child.
? Did Mary work for a magazine? N
# 2objverbs 1 e
Mary published a book which had impressed some critics who worked for a magazine.
? Did Mary work for a magazine? N

# 2objverbs 2 a
Joe placed the dishes into the cabinet which had the beautiful stained glass doors.
? Were the doors of the cabinet pretty? Y
# 2objverbs 2 b
Joe placed the dishes which had pleased the hostess into the cabinet in the dining room.  
? Was the cabinet in the dining room? Y
# 2objverbs 2 c
Joe placed the dishes which had pleased the hostess who catered for some friends into the cabinet 
above the counter.
? Did Joe put the dishes into the cabinet? Y
# 2objverbs 2 d
Joe moved the dishes which had pleased the hostess who catered for some friends into the cabinet 
above the counter.
? Did Joe put the dishes into the cabinet? Y
# 2objverbs 2 e
Joe broke the dishes which had pleased the hostess who catered for some friends.
? Was the hostess pleased by the dishes? Y

# 2objverbs 3 a
Jane put the ball into the closet after deciding the garage was an unsuitable place to store it.
? Was the ball put in the garage? N
# 2objverbs 3 b
Jane put the ball which had struck the boy into the closet that contained all the other toys.
? Did the boy put the ball in the closet? N
# 2objverbs 3 c
Jane put the ball which had struck the boy who cried after the accident into the closet 
in the hallway.
? Did Jane cry after the accident? N
# 2objverbs 3 d
Jane took the ball which had struck the boy who cried after the accident into the closet 
in the hallway.
? Did the boy take the ball after the accident? N
# 2objverbs 3 e
Jane hid the ball which had struck the boy who cried after the accident.
? Did Jane cry after the accident? N

# 2objverbs 4 a
Chris handed the drawing to a student who looked at it critically and decided 
that the perspective was poorly done.
? Was the student critical of the drawing? Y
# 2objverbs 4 b
Chris handed the drawing which had amazed the teacher to a student who studied art history.
? Did the student know something about the history of art? Y
# 2objverbs 4 c
Chris handed the drawing which had amazed the teacher who studied at art school to a student 
of art history.
? Did Christopher give the drawing to the teacher? Y
# 2objverbs 4 d
Chris mentioned a drawing which had amazed the teacher who studied at art school to a student 
of art history.
? Had the teacher studied at art school? Y
# 2objverbs 4 e
Christopher copied the drawing which had amazed the teacher who studied at art school.
? Did the drawing impress the teacher? Y

# 2objverbs 5 a
Joe positioned the pieces onto the chess board after determining that he would play 
with the black pieces.
? Did Joe decide to play with the white pieces? N
# 2objverbs 5 b
Joe positioned the pieces which had fascinated the artist onto the chess board with care.
? Did the artist position the pieces? N
# 2objverbs 5 c
Joe positioned the pieces which had fascinated the artist who talked about wood work onto the chess
board carefully.
? Did Joe talk about wood work? N
# 2objverbs 5 d
Joe arranged the pieces which had fascinated the artist who talked about wood work onto the chess 
board carefully.
? Did the artist arrange the pieces? N
# 2objverbs 5 e
Joe held the pieces which had fascinated the artist who talked about wood work.
? Did Joe talk about wood work? N

# 2objverbs 6 a
Sue slung the bag into the overhead compartment with surprising ease and grace.   
? Did the bag get put into the overhead compartment? Y
# 2objverbs 6 b
Sue slung the bag which had strained the grandma into the overhead compartment 
and closed the compartment securely.   
? Did Sue close the overhead compartment? Y
# 2objverbs 6 c
Sue slung the bag which had strained the grandma who suffered from chronic pain into the overhead 
compartment.   
? Did Sue move the bag into the overhead compartment? Y
# 2objverbs 6 d
Sue raised the bag which had strained the grandma who suffered from chronic pain into the overhead 
compartment.   
? Did the Grandma have chronic pain? Y
# 2objverbs 6 e
Sue carried the bag which had strained the grandma who suffered from chronic pain.   
? Did someone other than the grandmother carry the bag? Y

# 2objverbs 7 a
Pete handed the binder to the clerk who took it without question or complaint
and placed it on the shelf.
? Did the clerk hand out the binder? N
# 2objverbs 7 b
Pete handed the binder which had upset the engineer to the clerk who took it 
without question.
? Did the engineer give the binder to the clerk? N
# 2objverbs 7 c
Pete handed the binder which had upset the engineer who complained about budget cuts to the clerk 
who put it away.
? Did Pete complain about budget cuts? N
# 2objverbs 7 d
Pete returned the binder which had upset the engineer who complained about budget cuts to the clerk
who put it away.
? Did the engineer return the binder to the clerk? N
# 2objverbs 7 e
Pete found the binder which had surprised the engineer who complained about budget cuts.
? Did the binder surprise Peter? N

# 2objverbs 8 a 
Margarite gave the present to the toddler who smiled and thanked her for the gift.  
? Did the toddler thank Margarite? Y
# 2objverbs 8 b 
Margarite gave the present which had interested the girl to the toddler 
who smiled and opened the gift.  
? Was the little girl interested in the present? Y
# 2objverbs 8 c 
Margarite gave the present which had interested the girl who played with the doll to the toddler 
who appreciated the gift.
? Did Margarite give away a present? Y
# 2objverbs 8 d 
Margarite took the present which had interested the girl who played with the doll to the toddler 
who appreciated the gift.
? Was the little girl curious about the present's contents? Y
# 2objverbs 8 e 
Margarite wanted the present which had interested the girl who played with the doll.
? Was the little girl curious about the present's contents? Y

# 2objverbs 9 a
Joey passed the muffins to the woman who slowly sipped her tea and admired the expensive china.
? Did the woman sipping tea pass the muffins? N
# 2objverbs 9 b
Joey passed the muffins which had interested the child to the woman who slowly sipped her tea.
? Did the child pass the muffins? N
# 2objverbs 9 c
Joey passed the muffins which had interested the child who sat at the table to the woman 
who asked for them.
? Did the muffins interest Joey? N
# 2objverbs 9 d
Joey served the muffins which had interested the child who sat at the table to the woman 
who asked for them.
? Did the child serve the muffins? N
# 2objverbs 9 e
Joey ate the muffins which had interested the child who sat at the table.
? Did Joey sit at the table? N

# 2objverbs 10 a
Marcie placed the vest into the storage area which was located below the main deck of the ship.  
? Did Marcie move the vest? Y
# 2objverbs 10 b
Marcie placed the vest which had saved the man into the storage area with the other life vests.  
? Did Marcie place the vest into the storage area? Y
# 2objverbs 10 c
Marcie placed the vest which had saved the man who fell into the water into the storage area. 
? Had the vest saved the man? Y
# 2objverbs 10 d
Marcie raised the vest which had saved the man who fell into the water into the storage area. 
? Did the man fall into the water? Y
# 2objverbs 10 e
Marcie dried the vest which had saved the man who fell into the water. 
? Was the vest dried off? Y


# 2objverbs 11 a
Kate put the food into the refrigerator to prevent it from going stale before tomorrow's lunch.
? Did Kate leave the food to go stale? N
# 2objverbs 11 b
Kate put the food which had quieted the children into the refrigerator on the middle shelf. 
? Did the children put the food in the refrigerator? N
# 2objverbs 11 c
Kate put the food which had quieted the children who whined about being hungry into the fridge 
to save for later.
? Did Kate watch the television? N
# 2objverbs 11 d
Kate moved the food which had quieted the children who whined about being hungry into the fridge 
to save for later.
? Was Kate quieted by the food? N
# 2objverbs 11 e
Kate ate the food which had quieted the children who whined about being hungry. 
? Did Kate complain about being hungry? N

# 2objverbs 12 a
Nancy put the cup onto the saucer after she had finished drinking her coffee with cream.
? Did Nancy drink coffee with cream? Y
# 2objverbs 12 b
Nancy put the cup which had impressed the women onto the saucer after she had finished her coffee.
? Did the cup impress the women?  Y
# 2objverbs 12 c
Nancy put the cup which had impressed the women who drank the green tea onto the saucer 
to prevent it from spilling.
? Did Nancy put the cup onto the saucer?  Y
# 2objverbs 12 d
Nancy lowered the cup which had impressed the women who drank the green tea onto the saucer 
to prevent it from spilling.
? Did the women drink tea? Y
# 2objverbs 12 e
Nancy purchased the cup which had impressed the women who drank the green tea.
? Did Nancy buy a cup? Y

# 2objverbs 13 a
De handed the script to the actor who immediately began to practice and memorize his lines.
? Did De practice the script? N
# 2objverbs 13 b
De handed the script which had relieved the director to the actor who read his lines quickly.
? Did the director hand the script to the actor? N
# 2objverbs 13 c
De handed the script which had relieved the director who worried about minute details to the actor
who took it nonchalantly.
? Did De worry about minute details? N
# 2objverbs 13 d
De recited the script which had relieved the director who worried about minute details to the actor
who took it nonchalantly.
? Did the actor worry about minute details? N
# 2objverbs 13 e
De reviewed the script which had relieved the director who worried about minute details.
? Did the director review the script? N

# 2objverbs 14 a
Ed passed the book to the clerk who noted the title, author and copyright date.  
? Did Ed give the book to the clerk? Y
# 2objverbs 14 b
Ed passed the book which had angered the protesters to the clerk who noted the title.  
? Did the clerk note the title of the book? Y
# 2objverbs 14 c
Ed passed the book which had angered the protesters who believed in other ideals to the clerk 
who read it quietly.
? Did Ed pass a book to the clerk? Y
# 2objverbs 14 d
Ed recommended the book which had angered the protesters who believed in other ideals to the clerk 
who read it quietly.
? Was the book recommended to the clerk? Y
# 2objverbs 14 e
Ed disliked the book which had angered the protesters who believed in other ideals.  
? Did Ed dislike the book? Y

# 2objverbs 15 a
Jan bequeathed the sculpture to the Museum of Fine Arts who placed the statue in the basement 
of their art gallery.
? Did Jan bequeath the sculpture to a family member? N
# 2objverbs 15 b
Jan bequeathed the sculpture which had inspired the author to the Museum of Fine Arts 
who put the statue in storage.
? Was the sculpture put in a highly visible location in the Museum of Fine Arts? N
# 2objverbs 15 c
Jan bequeathed the sculpture which had inspired the author who wrote about the artist to the Museum
of Fine Arts.
? Did the sculpture inspire Jan? N
# 2objverbs 15 d
Jan took the sculpture which had inspired the author who wrote about the artist to the Museum 
of Fine Arts.
? Did Jan write about the author? N
# 2objverbs 15 e
Jan admired the sculpture which had inspired the author who wrote about the artist.
? Did Jan inspire the author? N

# 2objverbs 16 a
David loaned the cash to the casino owners who used it to start other lucrative businesses 
of questionable moral value.
? Were the casino owners start businesses with the cash? Y
# 2objverbs 16 b
David loaned the cash which had helped the company to the casino owners 
who used it to start other businesses.
? Had the cash helped the company? Y
# 2objverbs 16 c
David loaned the cash which had helped the company who expanded into new markets to the casino 
owners from Las Vegas.
? Did the company expand into new markets? Y
# 2objverbs 16 d
David lost the cash which had helped the company who expanded into new markets to the casino 
owners from Las Vegas.
? Had the cash helped the company expand? Y
# 2objverbs 16 e
David pocketed the cash which had helped the company who expanded into new markets.
? Did David pocket the cash? Y

# 2objverbs 17 a
Eric allocated some funds to a charity because it seemed the appropriate thing to do at the time.
? Did John allocate the funds? N
# 2objverbs 17 b
Eric allocated some funds which had pleased the executive to a charity 
in order to improve the company image.
? Did Eric please the organizer? N
# 2objverbs 17 c
Eric allocated some funds which had pleased the executive who spoke at the event to a charity 
for the homeless.
? Did Eric publicize for the event? N
# 2objverbs 17 d
Eric mentioned some funds which had pleased the executive who spoke at the event to a charity 
for the homeless.
? Did the organizer allocate some funds to a charity? N
# 2objverbs 17 e
Eric borrowed some funds which had pleased the executive who spoke at the event.
? Did the organizer borrow some funds? N

# 2objverbs 18 a
Molly crammed the clothes into the drawer without realizing 
that she would wrinkle her brand new skirt. 
? Did Molly have a brand new skirt? Y
# 2objverbs 18 b
Molly crammed the clothes which had angered the roommate into the drawer not caring that 
most of the clothes were dirty. 
? Had the clothes angered the roommate? Y
# 2objverbs 18 c
Molly crammed the clothes which had angered the roommate who wished for a maid into the drawer 
which she then tried to shut. 
? Did Molly cram the clothes into the drawer? Y
# 2objverbs 18 d
Molly folded the clothes which had angered the roommate who wished for a maid into the drawer 
which she then tried to shut. 
? Did Molly fold the clothes? Y
# 2objverbs 18 e
Molly ignored the clothes which had angered the roommate who wished for a maid. 
? Did the roommate wish for a maid? Y

# 2objverbs 19 a
Eric lodged the knife into the rack with the other kitchen utensils even though he knew 
that this was not a good arrangement.  
? Did Eric think that the knives were well arranged? N
# 2objverbs 19 b
Eric lodged the knife which had frightened the girl into the rack with the other kitchen utensils. 
? Did the girl put the knife into the rack? N
# 2objverbs 19 c
Eric lodged the knife which had frightened the girl who yelled about the noise into the rack 
which held the other kitchen utensils.
? Did Eric yell about the noise? N
# 2objverbs 19 d
Eric lowered the knife which had frightened the girl who yelled about the noise into the rack 
which held the other kitchen utensils.
? Did the girl put the knife into the rack? N
# 2objverbs 19 e
Eric sharpened the knife which had frightened the girl who yelled about the noise.
? Did Eric yell about the noise? N

# 2objverbs 20 a
Brenda stuffed the towel into the closet and shut the door 
before the contents of the closet could overflow onto the floor.
? Did the towel get put into the closet? Y
# 2objverbs 20 b
Brenda stuffed the towel which had dried the children into the closet and shut the door quickly.
? Had the towel dried the children? Y
# 2objverbs 20 c
Brenda stuffed the towel which had dried the children who swam at the beach into the closet 
and shut the door.
? Did Brenda put the towel into the closet? Y
# 2objverbs 20 d
Brenda brought the towel which had dried the children who swam at the beach into the closet 
and shut the door.
? Did the children swim at the beach? Y
# 2objverbs 20 e
Brenda washed the towel which had dried the children who swam at the beach.
? Did Brenda wash the towel? Y


# filler 1 a
Severe budget cuts, which forced elimination 
of overtime and temporary hiring, left the agency with the worst pile-up that anyone can remember.
? Did the budget cuts result in permanent employees being dismissed? N

# filler 2 a
As ground water drains away through underground construction, tunnels, or leaky sewers, 
the wooden pilings that support older buildings are exposed to air and start to rot.
? Is the draining of ground water a problem? Y

# filler 3 a
The owner was looking forward to retiring soon, 
but said it would feel very strange to not have 
the responsibility for a very special store anymore.
? Was the owner leaving the store? Y

# filler 4 a
He was a recovering alcoholic, a timid man 
who paid his weekly rent at exactly the same time every Friday and avoided others in the house.
? Was the tenant sociable? N

# filler 5 a
In business, there is no downside, or at least none that is ever admitted.
? Do businesses mostly portray events positively? Y

# filler 6 a
For the music to work, 
the conductor must shape the gestures and the architecture according to 
the composer's precise instructions, but if he tries to impose himself, he will fail.
? Should the conductor add his own modifications to the scores he conducts? N

# filler 7 a
Africa is three times the size of the United States, with 52 countries and thousands of dialects.
? Is Africa larger than the United States? Y

# filler 8 a
The man was barely twenty years old, spoke precious little English and 
his only friends in town were sleeping in the other hotel room.
? Was the man staying in a friend's house? N

# filler 9 a
Her words were a bad omen 
for the orthographic commission of scribes, linguists, and other experts 
who have been laboring to bring order to the language's antiquated spelling rules.
? Were the language's spelling rules considered problematic? Y

# filler 10 a
It is likely that students who feel that they must compromise their values 
to get high grades and test scores are aware of such behavior in government and business.
? Does the speaker think that the government upholds its values? N

# filler 11 a
Whether or not he committed any crimes, the manager has shown 
a troubling disregard for the ethical responsibilities that come with public service.
? Were ethical responsibilities cast aside? Y

# filler 12 a
The best defense against hate is 
a strong, diverse and democratic civic culture that respects human rights and civil liberties.
? Does the statement say that civic culture plays a role in defending against hate? Y

# filler 13 a
The stock market boom, particularly the bubble in shares of unprofitable companies 
that paid no taxes, may have created a tax boom that will never be seen again.
? Were the unprofitable companies paying taxes? N

# filler 14 a
The businessman's intention was to take advantage of his multi-cultural expertise, 
aim at a growing market, and spread the entrepreneurial culture throughout the continent.
? Did the businessman have little experience in dealing with other cultures? N

# filler 15 a
Because the movie was such a mess, 
one is relieved to say that the show does not fall short of the standards on which it is based.
? Was the movie poorly done? Y

# filler 16 a
Dreams, omens, and prophecies play a large role in the character's lives.
? Do the gods exert an influence on the characters? N  

# filler 17 a
The maid is a fiercely resentful domestic in a provincial town who turns on her employers.
? Is the maid angry with her employers? Y

# filler 18 a
The world's biggest maker of phones said today that 
it was drastically reducing its forecast for sales this year.
? Was the company that made phones optimistic in its revised forecast? N

# filler 19 a
When the boy was three years old, 
his dad bought a light blue car from his mother's sister and promised he would give it to the boy 
someday.
? Was the boy promised a car? Y

# filler 20 a
A laboratory has built the world's fastest computer, 
a machine so powerful that 
it outpaces the raw processing power of the second and third fastest computers combined.
? Are the second and third fastest computers combined faster than the new one? N

# filler 21 a
Interviews with military and police officers and others directly involved revealed 
that discontented military officers had been meeting among themselves for almost a year.
? Were the military officers meeting for more than a month? Y

# filler 22 a
As a slow cold front undercut and lifted sultry air, 
strong thunderstorms erupted in the region.
? Did the region have pleasant weather? N

# filler 23 a
After peeling coring, and cutting the apples in half, 
place them into the crock-pot and drizzle them with lemon juice and melted butter.
? Should butter be added to the dish? Y

# filler 24 a
The woman who answered the phone, his wife, told her he was expected back the following evening. 
? Did a man answer the phone? N
